## Antilaconia - across the bay from the laconic StatusNet

Antilaconia is a very minimal microblogging engine, which is intended
to be kinda similar to StatusNet, except:

1. it doesn't support any of the fancy features,
2. it's more geared for personal websites and not big public sites, and
3. it uses Ruby platform.

The idea is that you can just install Ruby on a webhost, pull in a few gems,
and stick this in as a CGI script.

It also tries to bridge the gap between "microblogging" and "somewhat more
featured microblogging shit" in that it lets you post text bodies with
Markdown and such, while only cc'ing the "microblog" portion of the post
to the microblog networks.

**Note that the thing just doesn't work at the moment.** It creates the
"data model", if it can be called that at the moment, and that's it. It
lets you log in and log out. It shows you database entries if they
actually are in the database. And that's it.
Needless to say, DON'T USE THIS. =)

### Licence

This software is distributed under [GNU AGPL 3.0 or later](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html).

### Requirements

Aside of Ruby 1.9.x, you need at least this:

    # gem install camping bcrypt-ruby kramdown twitter

Also see [twitter gem instructions](http://sferik.github.io/twitter/) on how
to properly install the Twitter gem.

I'm developing this on SQLite storage engine. Can't vounch for
anything else at all, but since this is built on top of Active Record,
other databases ought to work too.

### Installation

Copy `config.ru.example` to `config.ru`, then edit it for pertinent,
mostly self-explanatory settings.

For some reason, Camping *console* doesn't want to read `config.ru`'s
database settings, while the *actual Rack environment* does. You may
want to set up a link to your database manually.

    $ ln -s /wherever/lies/your/database.sqlite ~/.camping.db

Set up the user account and blog.

    Fire up shell:

      $ camping -C config.ru

    Create a new user:

      irb> u = Antilaconia::Models::User.new
      irb> u.username = 'whoeveryouare'
      irb> u.password = 'wHaTeV3rYouRpAssW0rD1s'
      irb> u.save

    Create a new blog:

      irb> b = Antilaconia::Models::Blog.new
      irb> b.owner = u
      irb> b.title = "Musings Most Morose"
      irb> b.pagetitle = "Musings Most Morose"
      irb> b.save

    Done:

      irb> exit

You may now remove your link.

    $ rm ~/.camping.db

I'm going to assume you're insane and have access to Apache with CGI
scripts and `mod_rewrite`. (As you may well know, `mod_rewrite` is
required for True Craziness.)  You may want to take a look at
`.htaccess` and the `antilaconia.cgi` scripts so that they point to
the right things.

Access your blog with `/login` to get the login form. Log in.
Post some stuff.